Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/GNA.md

The GNA plugin provides a way to run inference on Intel® GNA, as well as in the software execution mode on CPU.

For more details on how to configure a machine to use GNA plugin, see the [GNA configuration page](@ref openvino_docs_install_guides_configurations_for_intel_gna).

## Intel® GNA Generational Differences

The first (1.0) and second (2.0) versions of Intel® GNA found in 10th and 11th generation Intel® Core™ Processors may be considered functionally equivalent. Intel® GNA 2.0 provided performance improvement with respect to Intel® GNA 1.0. Starting with 12th Generation Intel® Core™ Processors (formerly codenamed Alder Lake), support for Intel® GNA 3.0 features is being added.

In this documentation, "GNA 2.0" refers to Intel® GNA hardware delivered on 10th and 11th generation Intel® Core™ processors, and the term "GNA 3.0" refers to GNA hardware delivered on 12th generation Intel® Core™ processors.

### Intel® GNA Forward and Backward Compatibility

> When a model is run, using the GNA plugin, it is compiled internally for the specific hardware target. It is possible to export compiled model, using <a href="#import-export">Import/Export</a> functionality to use it later. In general, there is no guarantee that a model compiled and exported for GNA 2.0 runs on GNA 3.0 or vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a model is run, using the GNA plugin, it is compiled internally for the specific hardware target. It is possible to export a compiled model, using <a href="#import-export">Import/Export</a> functionality to use it later. In general, there is no guarantee that a model compiled and exported for GNA 2.0 runs on GNA 3.0 or vice versa.
```

@endsphinxdirective

> > **NOTE**: In most cases, network compiled for GNA 2.0 runs as expected on GNA 3.0. However, the performance may be worse compared to when a network is compiled specifically for the latter. The exception is a network with convolutions with the number of filters greater than 8192 (see the <a href="#models-and-operations-limitations">Models and Operations Limitations</a> section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: In most cases, a network compiled for GNA 2.0 runs as expected on GNA 3.0. However, the performance may be worse compared to when a network is compiled specifically for the latter. The exception is a network with convolutions with the number of filters greater than 8192 (see the <a href="#models-and-operations-limitations">Models and Operations Limitations</a> section).
```

For optimal work with POT quantized models, which includes 2D convolutions on GNA 3.0 hardware, the <a href="#support-for-2d-convolutions-using-pot">following requirements</a> should be satisfied.

Choose a compile target with regard to the priority: cross-platform execution, performance, memory, or power optimization.

Use the following properties to check interoperability in your application: `ov::intel_gna::execution_target` and `ov::intel_gna::compile_target`.

[Speech C++ Sample](@ref openvino_inference_engine_samples_speech_sample_README) can be used for experiments (see the `-exec_target` and `-compile_target` command line options).

## Software Emulation Mode

Software emulation mode is used by default on platforms without GNA hardware support. Therefore, model runs even if there is no GNA HW within your platform.
GNA plugin enables switching the execution between software emulation mode and hardware execution mode once the model has been loaded.
For details, see a description of the `ov::intel_gna::execution_mode` property.

## Recovery from Interruption by High-Priority Windows Audio Processes

GNA is designed for real-time workloads such as noise reduction.

> For such workloads, processing should be time constrained. Otherwise, extra delays may cause undesired effects, such as

Author: > 

```suggestion
For such workloads, processing should be time constrained. Otherwise, extra delays may cause undesired effects such as
```

> **NOTE**: Due to the "first come - first served" nature of GNA driver and the QoS feature, this mode may lead to increased CPU consumption
if there are several clients using GNA simultaneously.

> Even a lightweight competing infer request (not cleared at the time when the user's GNA client process makes its request) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even a lightweight competing infer request, not cleared at the time when the user's GNA client process makes its request,
```

@endsphinxtabset

To compile a model, use either [compile Tool](@ref openvino_inference_engine_tools_compile_tool_README) or [Speech C++ Sample](@ref openvino_inference_engine_samples_speech_sample_README).

### Stateful Models
GNA plugin natively supports stateful models. For more details on such models, refer to the [Stateful models] (@ref openvino_docs_OV_UG_network_state_intro).

> > **NOTE**: The GNA is typically used in streaming scenarios when minimizing the latency is important. Taking into account that POT does not support the `TensorIterator` operation, the recommendation is to use the `--transform` option of the Model Optimizer to apply `LowLatency2` transformation when converting an original model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: The GNA is typically used in streaming scenarios when minimizing latency is important. Taking into account that POT does not support the `TensorIterator` operation, the recommendation is to use the `--transform` option of the Model Optimizer to apply `LowLatency2` transformation when converting an original model.
```

> [Compile Tool](@ref openvino_inference_engine_tools_compile_tool_README) or [Speech C++ Sample](@ref openvino_inference_engine_samples_speech_sample_README) can be used to compile model.

Author: > 

```suggestion
To compile a model, use either [compile Tool](@ref openvino_inference_engine_tools_compile_tool_README) or [Speech C++ Sample](@ref openvino_inference_engine_samples_speech_sample_README).
```

@endsphinxdirective

Inference request performance counters provided for the time being:

>    * Number of total cycles spent on scoring in hardware, including compute and memory stall cycles
>    * Number of stall cycles spent in hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The number of total cycles spent on scoring in hardware, including compute and memory stall cycles
   * The number of stall cycles spent in hardware
```

## Limitations

> Listed below are all plugin limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Models and Operations Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Model and Operation Limitations
```
